Well, hacking performance.
So far those were the basic ideas.
Some are very general, but now we will
get deeper into how to hack performance,
how to count every millisecond for
us, okay?
There will be a couple of things that we
will see that they are really hacky.
And they have a really
cost of implementation, so
it will be worth the effort
on some situations only.
There are other techniques that are more
okay for most websites and web apps, okay?
That's a warning.
We're going to start
hacking the first load,
that is when you get into the website for
the first time.
So, first, avoid more than one roundtrip.
The first one is really hacky.
You have the warning.
So, avoid more than one roundtrip.
What is this?
It has to do with TCP, how TCP works.
Remember I mentioned before that TCP,
the low level protocol that HTTP is using,
TCP will split our response in
several packets, okay, remember that?
And each packet will go through
the network, and sometimes.
TCP will need to send another one again,
because it gets lost,
and things like that.
But there is a hack that says,
what if we try to send
a response in only one packet?
So the HTTP response, the first one.
What's the first one?
The HTML the most important one
because if the browser doesn't
have the HTML,
it can't move the loading process, okay?
So what if we send only one packet?
For that,
we need to get into the TCP protocol and
learn about something known as slow start.
Because what's the size of a packet?
We don't know.
In fact, it's dynamic.
But we know about the first one.
The first answer will start slowly.
That means that there is something
known as initial congestion window.
It doesn't matter, it's too technical.
But anyway, on Linux or
Linux-based servers,
if you don't touch that set up,
it's 14.6KiB and
the next question is, KiB what's that?
Well, let me ask you a question.
How many bytes in a kilobyte?
>> 1,000.
>> 1,000?
>> Is that 1,024?
>> 1,024?
Which one, 1,000, 1,024?
It's a very basic question.
>> [LAUGH].
>> And
you're giving me weird faces right now.
>> The metric prefects for kilo is 1,000.
But 2 to the 10 almost is 1000.
>> So let's say to answer the question.
Well, 1KiB is 1024.
That's what most people will answer.
Actually, when you do a survey, I'm not
saying this yet as the final statement
saying, I'm saying that typically,
a survey between technical people,
even developers,
80 percent will respond 1,024, so 1,024.
But actually, that's wrong.
I know that a lot of you,
mostly here on the video,
are trying to kill me at this point,
but bear with me for a second.
Actually, it's 1,000.
Because the kilo prefix is 1000 and
it's not just me, right?
So you can go and
ask Siri that is asking actually,
WolframAlpha,
that is a scientific say website.
You can ask Google how
many bytes in a kilobyte.
You can ask ChatGPT if you want.
I don't have the ChatGPT you think,
you can have Wikipedia.
It's 1000.
Yeah, we were wrong.
There is a history of what happened blah,
the binary if I were
actually that was set.
That was set legally and
formally within standards in 1998.
Okay, so a long time ago, 25 years ago.
And we are still not sure
about what kilobytes mean.
Well, anyway.
A kibibyte, not kilobyte kibibyte
is a one that still exists for
1024, that's KiB, okay?
So KiB means kibibyte.
So I'm saying this because you when we're
talking about bytes and milliseconds,
everything counts.
So this is a KiB byte, Man in Black or
[LAUGH] maybe bytes, GB bytes.
So those are the ones that
are using powers of two and
then the other ones legally, technically,
are actually using, 1000.
The main responsible of
the confusion today is
Windows because Windows
is not following this.
Linux and Mac OS based on
UNIX is using this one
the idea is it's KiB or it's KB 1000.
But Windows is using KB for 1024.
So he's not following the spec,
the standards, the industry.
Anyway, going back,
we were saying that 1KiB,
1 kibibyte is 1024 bytes.
So going back to this idea,
we were saying that on Linux.
14.6 KiB is the initial congestion window,
which means if you can fit
within 14.6 KiB, the HTML,
it won't be split into
more than one TCP packet.
So it will arrive to the client
as soon as possible.
Because we don't need to send more than
one packet, wait for them, reorder them.
See if it's there or not, blah.
Thinking you have 14, yeah, it's not so
good but remember that it's HTML and
we are GZIP-ing the HTML.
So that's roughly 70K of HTML,
which sounds better than 14.
This is very hacky, okay.
I know it's very hacky.
And also,
when we are doing web performance,
typically we say now that we have
something known as above the fold, ATF.
And something known as below the fold BTF.
Some people deeply ask the fold,
are we talking about foldables?
Well, actually that these terms
are coming from printed newspapers.
Okay, so the idea when you are paying for
an ad in a newspaper,
you have above the fold, this is the fold.
Above the fold below
the fold below the fold
is cheaper than putting
an ad above the fold.
Okay, so that's we are using
those terms here as well.
On the web of course, we don't have a
fold even if you have a foldable device.
We're talking about the scroll actually,
so
above fold is the first scroll, okay?
Everything that goes below what you see
without scrolling, that's below fold.
So when we're talking
about 14.6 KiB bytes,
maybe we don't need to
serve the whole HTML.
We can serve just above fold.
Because what we need is to achieve
user's perception of performance,
that that is, for example,
largest contentful paint, remember?
So if you achieve that,
then maybe we can fit
in 70K of HTML the code necessary
to render the above fold.
So what can you add that there?
If you can embed CSS and
JavaScript much better.
And if there is a space,
you can even embed the logo in SVG.
Everything that you can fit within 70K
well worth the effort. who is going
to use this technique today this
technique is being used a lot on
some special regions of the world.
Africa some countries in South Asia
where they have a really
performance penalty for
example they have 30% of users on 2G.
We have a really,
big latency problem there.
So we don't want to have
a lot of TCP packets, okay?
Make sense?
In fact, I'm not saying that
they're using this technique today.
They used to use that.
Google.com, the mobile version you should
have some of this technique in action.
So if I enable the mobile user agent,
so I simulate,
Galaxy, the mobile version, let's see now,
because I don't know what's going on,
but yes, they have CSS, inline.
So it's not an external file.
Can you see that CSS there?
In fact,
let's see the source code like so.
We have JavaScript.
That's JavaScript.
Let me increase the font size JavaScript.
That's more JavaScript.
We need to have CSS somewhere.
And sometimes, I'm not sure right
now if I'm going to find it.
Yeah, I have sometimes images,
everything embedded in the HTML why?
To avoid more TCP rounds.
So avoid more HTTP requests.
So then the content can be as
fast as possible, really fast.
It's really hacky, yes, it is.
>> So that's all become like that in that
file during whatever your build is for
whatever your.
>> Yeah, you can have a build process,
your development process.
It can be server-side rendering as
well that is merging all these files
into just one.
>> kinda like tailwind I guess.
>> Yeah but if you can fit
this in 14.6 compressed then
everything will fit in one TCP packet.
Okay, hacky yeah but
yeah we're hacking web performance,
right, [COUGH] this one is interesting.
You should avoid http to https redirect.
Fortunately for us,
this is being replaced on many browsers.
So, here is the deal. What happens
when you type a URL, right?
You see an ad on TV, okay?
Buyme.com.
So, you go and type buyme.com.
You don't type https:,
you just type buyme.com.
So easy trying http or https.
Typically originally it was http and
then the server was saying no we
have we have a redirect to https.
So for that for a long time browsers
were using something known as
HSTS, HTTP Strict Transport Security,
which is just a header that
you can add in your website and
you can opt in within that URL.
Let me explain what that is [COUGH].
When you go to that website,
hstspreload and
you have a website, You can add a URL.
Let's add, I don't know,
New York times.com.
Let's check.
And it says now it's not
supporting the standard so
it's not supporting it, maybe CNN.
Now you can see there are a lot of
websites that are still not using
this technique was the google.com
no say what's going
on well what's this it saying
that you don't have the header.
And what's the deal with this is just
this header that you need to have
when you're responding with your HTML.
That header will say to the browser hey
browser what here in this website,
we always support HTTPS on every URL.
So it's safe from now on to
always go to HTTPS first.
That's HSTS.
So in that case when your user is typing
your URL it will go directly to HTTPS.
It's avoiding one redirect.
Does it make sense?
And if you log in your website here,
whitehouse.gov.
I don't want to try gov.
That's green.
So white house.
It's actually preloaded.
That means if you try
whitehub.gov in your browsers
without the protocol,
it will go directly to HTTPS.
>> How many milliseconds does that save?
>> That's going to save
one TCP connection, and
it can be around 150-200 milliseconds.
Which is, again, 5% of our budget,
so it's not bad.
So again, what do you need to do?
You need to set up this in your server.
It's a header.
And of course, for that, every URL in
your domain must be served with HTTPS.
And today there are a couple of domains
that you can buy, such as .app.
Have you seen the .app?
.app or .web?
And those domains are HSTS by default,
actually,
you cannot serve HTTP over
those domains you cannot.
It's not gonna work.
>> Do you need a certificate or
anything like that?
>> You need the same certificate as https
so you don't need a special certificate.
You need to send the header and
then add your domain in this website And
you will get into a wide list,
that's the name, and
allow list that then you
can remove if you want.
Several browsers, Safari, Firefox and Chrome
are using the list from this website.
It's kind of a standard.
Anyway some browsers today
are changing the algorithm and
they're trying HTTPS first and
only if it's returning
an error it's going to HTTP.
Fortunately they're
changing the algorithm.